/*
	word count: 300
	image: 1
*/

## How BBC News uses grunt.js

Grunt.js is used in two different ways at BBC News: for managing CSS and JavaScript in the template driven, responsive website available at [m.bbc.co.uk/news/](m.bbc.co.uk/news/); while the Visual Journalism team use it to create statically published, data driven content.

### Dynamic sites and Grunt

PHP is used to render 15 different language versions of BBC News.  The PHP templates have to be language neutral and deal with LTR and RTL languages.

Even with Sass, 15 different versions of the CSS is hard to manage.  Because grunt is so configurable, we can quickly spin up grunt's sass and watch tasks from the command line and tell it which language to render:

```
grunt watch:service:afrique
```

When we deploy our code to the test environment our [build tool]() uses grunt to render all 15 versions of the CSS using the same command line configuration:

```
grunt sass:dist
```

### Static content and grunt

Its easy to throw away best practices when you are up against a deadline.  The Visual Journalism team combats this by using grunt-init, a tool for quickly creating new grunt projects.

Our default project has many best practices already setup for developers, like JS concatenation to reduce HTTP requests, inlined CSS to increase page load and auto cache breaking URLs.

Creating multi-lingual versions of our content is simple too due to our own grunt task: [grunt-multi-lang-site-generator](http://github.com/BBCVisualJournalism/grunt-multi-lang-site-generator).  This uses [lodash]() to render JSON translation files into static HTML.  Developers can build an English version and then quickly run `grunt translate` to create alternative language versions.

We also use grunt to deploy our static content to stage and live.  The grunt tasks [grunt-text-replace]() and [grunt-contrib-copy]() automatically change URL paths, so we never accidently deploy code to live that points to assets on our development server.
